# Analysis and prediction of debt repayment by credit card holders
The aim of the project is to create a predictive model that will allow to determine the occurrence of default payments by credit card holders who are clients of a large commercial bank in Taiwan operating on the loan market, including issuing credit cards for its customers. The task is to optimize the bank's income from existing customers who have a credit card. The company has the data of 30,000 customers. Based on the analysis of the bank's customer data, the prediction of the probability of default in the next month will be made. Then, based on business conditions, a probability level (cut-off point) will be selected for which the client will be classified as credible / not credible client. The cut-off point should be selected to maximize the bank's income from the entire loan portfolio.<br>

The results of the analysis in addition to the predict of default payments by customers due next month on the current credit card can be used to evaluate an application for a new credit card and used to make an overall assessment of the credibility of the customer, eg. when granting consumer credit or other offers for the adjustment of banking products.<br>

Due to the guidelines of the supervisory authorities (KNF) on the use of predictive models by financial institutions, a fully interpretable model should be used. Additionally, data transformation should be limited and the number of attributes (dimensionality) should be limited as much as possible (without losing the model's effectiveness) to avoid overtraining the model.<br>

To implement a predictive model for classifying credible or not credible customers, preliminary analysis and initial data processing will be performed for the available customer dataset. Then, the attribute values will be transformed for the proper operation of the algorithms and the dimensionality of the model will be limited by selecting the best attributes for modelling. A logistic regression algorithm will be used to perform the basic predictive model. Additionally, for comparison purposes, an additional model will be made based on the XGBoost algorithm. Based on the results achieved, taking into account general modeling indicators and business conditions, a comparison of models and an assessment of their effectiveness will be presented. A comparison of models will be presented and the assessment of their effectiveness based on the achieved results, taking into account general modeling indicators and business conditions.<br>

***
For testing purposes, models based on the decision tree algorithm, random forests, LightGBM, CatBoost, etc. will also be made.
